# ANOVA-of-Teaching-Styles-Using-SAS
ANOVA of Grade 8 Students' Math Scores using Statistical Analysis System (SAS). <br /> <br />
Dataset contains 216 observations for Grade 8 students in a school. Features include the student's gender, ethnicity, free or paid lunch, math score, and teaching style. There are two categories of teaching styles with one being traditional (adhering to a top-down approach in which knowledge originates from the teacher and is passed to students resulting in more direct instruction) and standards-based (where students play an active role in building their knowledge and encourages students to explore, conjecture, and test their knowledge). Main topic of interest: is there a difference in the mean math scores of Grade 8 students between the two teaching methods? Secondary topics include comparisons of mean math scores based on gender, ethnicity, and free/paid lunch. <br /> <br />
Analysis was done using two sample Z-Test (sample > 30) comparison of means and ANOVA with post-hoc Tukey for ethnicity (4 ethnicity groups). The traditional teaching style was better on average by 8.35 points and was statistically significant using alpha = 0.05. Using the same alpha, there was no difference between genders, but using alpha = 0.10, female 8th graders score on average 4.29 points higher than males. There was no difference in scores between free/paid lunches. Finally, ANOVA showed no difference in scores between any of the four ethnicities. <br /> <br />
In the Code folder, TeachingStyles.sas and Results_Final.pdf are the code file and output respectively. <br /> <br />
TeachingStyles.pptx is the final presentation of results. You can 'View raw' to see the ppt without downloading. <br /> <br />
Dataset taken from: https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/soumyadiptadas/students-math-score-for-different-teaching-style.
